# Cancer Severity Prediction

- Worked with a datatset containing 1000 observations with information about lung cancer patients
- Used data visualizations techniques, statistical regression analysis, and supervised machine learning (random forest classifier) to predict level of cancer severity

## Problem Statement <!--- do not change this line -->

The use of AI to aid cancer prevention, diagnosis, and treatment has seen a lot of success. Applications trying to match cancer drugs to patients based on cell data, predict how well a patient would respond to a treatment, or provide earlier diagnosis have been able to significantly improve people’s quality of life. In this project, we are interested in using ML/AI to answer the research question: How accurately can we predict the severity of lung cancer based on selected environmental and behavioral factors? The main dataset we use contains information about 1000 lung cancer patients, recording 20 variables such as age, air pollution exposure, alcohol use, smoking level, genetic risk, etc. These factors can be used to predict the severity level of their lung cancer (Low, Medium, or High). We are especially interested in seeing how much environmental factors such as air pollution impact cancer severity, possibly using other datasets to provide additional insights. This research question can deepen our understanding of lung cancer prevention, diagnosis, and treatment as the dataset records information commonly used to assess cancer risk like diet and substance abuse, as well as patients' already existing symptoms like chest pain and shortness of breath.

## Key Results <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Enumerate the main results of this project in a list and describe them.

*EXAMPLE:*
1. *Recorded over 1,000 unique prompts and their responses generated by ChatGPT*
2. *Identified three biases in ChatGPT's responses*
   - *When prompted about this world event*
   - *When prompted about this field of science*
   - *When prompted about this political party*


## Methodologies <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)

*EXAMPLE:*
*To accomplish this, we utilized the OpenAI API to interact with ChatGPT, and we designed a custom Python script to generate diverse prompts and collect corresponding responses. The data was then processed and analyzed using pandas, enabling us to detect patterns and biases in the AI model's outputs.*
*Engineered a Python script to generate over 1,000 prompts and elicit their responses from ChatGPT, utilizing pandas to collect the data. When prompted for solutions to this specific relevant crisis, nearly 80% of ChatGPT's responses promoted a certain worldview.*


## Data Sources <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Include any relevant data sources that were used in your project.

*EXAMPLE:*
*Kaggle Datasets: [Link to Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets)*

## Technologies Used <!--- do not change this line -->

- Python
- pandas
- numpy
- scikit-learn

## Authors <!--- do not change this line -->

- Anh Nguyen ([nguye45p@mtholyoke.edu](mailto:nguye45p@mtholyoke.edu))
- Saniya Jain ([saniyajain@umass.edu](mailto:saniyajain@umass.edu))
- Sneha Arya ([sfa5848@psu.edu](mailto:sfa5848@psu.edu))
